are you struggling to grow on Instagram
are your viws way down despite trying
every single different strategy out
there do you struggle to differentiate
between what to post on your stories and
your reals and it feels like no matter
what you do you just can't get the
results you're looking for well I hear
you Instagram can be a very frustrating
confusing overwhelming place and then
you throw on top of that the dozens of
content creators who call themselves
Instagram experts who are teaching you
strategies that are either outdated or
never worked in the first place there's
a lot of misinformation a lot of rumors
and a lot of confusion going around on
Instagram and so in today's episode I'm
going to be sharing with you these seven
Instagram strategies that are often
times taught but might be actually
killing your Instagram
[Music]
account in case you don't know who I am
or what my background is my name is
Brock Johnson and I've built my
Instagram following to over 700,000
followers over the course of The Last 5
Years I'm one of the world's leading
social media experts I speak on stages
all around the world about how to grow
on Instagram and my Instagram course has
helped thousands of people grow to over
100,000 followers on Instagram and a big
reason behind my success is that
everything I do on social media is very
very datadriven I am always looking for
studies and conducting my own I am
always researching what is working and
what is not working and I'm always
collecting anecdotal data from polling
people and listening to stories in the
comment section in the DMS on Instagram
stories and across social media as a
whole to figure out what is working what
is not working what is being taught and
what is actually being put into practice
and so today there's some things I'm
going to share with you that might
surprise you that might shock you that
you might even be doing on your own
account maybe even on a daily basis and
I'm going to tell you to not only not do
it but to stay away from it completely
now whether you know me you love me you
trust me or this is the first video of
mine you've ever watched before take
everything I'm about to say with a grain
of salt that is something that I would
tell you whether you're listening to me
or any other social media expert out
there take take the advice with a grain
of salt because a lot of times the
things I'm sharing with you they might
come across as something that you need
to do something that you have to do but
in reality everything is just a best
practice and everything is a
generalization there is no one-size
fits-all there is nothing that's true
100% of the time on social media or else
everyone would be doing it and the
algorithms and the social networks would
be quick to make it so that it doesn't
work for 100% of people so even though
the things I'm going to be teaching you
today might be the exact same things
that I'm telling my students they might
be some of the things that I'm putting
into practice myself you might be the
exception to the rule and so it's your
job to take what I'm telling you today
and to take really any strategy or tips
that are shared with you on podcasts or
YouTube videos or even on social media
posts take it and put it into practice
put it to test for yourself to see if it
gives you the results that you're
looking for the one last thing that I
will say before we get into these seven
strategies today is I'm not going to
waste your time with the things that I
would hope by now you know you should
not be doing I hope by now you know that
you should not be in engagement groups
because that's inorganic and it's going
to lead to decreasing returns until you
eventually end up worse off than where
you started I hope by now I don't have
to tell you that you shouldn't buy
followers or buy engagement I hope by
now I shouldn't have to tell you that
you shouldn't buy shoutouts from major
Pages or you shouldn't steal people's
content or rip people off those sorts of
things I think it goes without saying
avoid them I hope it goes without saying
that you should not follow unfollow and
all of the other strategies that were
really popular in 2012 instead I'm going
to be focusing on the strategies that
you might not know are hurting your
Instagram account or they might even
still be being taught to this day and
they might be widely believed to be
effective but they might actually be
hurting your account be crushing your
growth be crushing your engagement or be
crushing your sales and the first
strategy that I'm going to tell you to
avoid is too much quantity on your
Instagram stories and this comes in two
main forms the first form is in lengthy
individual stories so each of those
little story Clips can be up to 60
seconds long but they should rarely ever
be a very common mistake that I see
people making all the time myself
included in the past is taking up the
full circle while recording the full 60
seconds and just kind of blabbering on
to fill that space some of you may or
may not remember back in the day
Instagram stories when they first came
out were only 15 seconds long and so you
had to be very brief then Instagram said
hey you can be up to 60 seconds long but
we're still going to break it into four
segments now you can be 60 seconds long
and Instagram doesn't break it up let's
think about what that's like for the
consumer they have to commit at the
beginning of your story to watch the
full 60 seconds uninterrupted or else
they're going to lose out there's no way
to fast forward or rewind the only
options they have are starting the
entire thing over again which can be a
pain I mean imagine if you were 42
seconds in to a 60-second story and the
kid started screaming the alarm went off
you got distracted Instagram glitched
whatever and you lost your train of
thought you just stopped paying
attention well now you're faced with
either skipping that story altoe which
is what most people do or starting and
listening through the entire first 42
seconds again it's very unlikely so the
first kind of one a of too much quantity
on stories is the individual Clips being
too long the second too much quantity on
stories uh that I should tell you to
avoid is too many individual Clips it
used to be a best practice that the more
stories you posted the more views you
would get and this was because
essentially every time you posted a
story your little story bubble would
move back to the front of the queue the
little profile picture that indicates
that you have a story would move back to
the front of the line and would thus
increase your chances of getting views
that's how the algorithm used to to work
and so it used to be advantageous for
you to post more than 10 stories in a
day more than 15 stories in a day heck
the more the marrier but now less is
more in fact according to a 2024 study
by Sprout social retention rate
continues to decline as you post more
story frames a major dip from the first
two frames so after those first two
clips on your stories the third one in
every subsequent story experiences a
major dip the med retention rate is at
81% by the fourth frame and dips below
75% by the seventh frame so with each
story you're going to lose more and more
and more viewers and that's not a good
indication as you're losing more and
more viewers the algorithm says there
must be something wrong with this story
people aren't that into it and so
they're going to show your full story
the entire thing to less people so less
is more I now recommend posting three or
less stories on the days that you are
posting stories that's one B Now 1 C the
third and final component that you
should avoid in terms of quantity on
your Instagram stories is in the
individual days that you are posting on
your Instagram stories it used to be
advantageous to have basically a
NeverEnding Story basically every day
you were adding a few things to your
story throughout the day and so even as
things from the previous 24 hours were
expiring you had new things to look at
but this essentially allows your
algorithm to continue to decline and
your retention rate to continue to drop
and drop and drop lower and lower over
time so instead it's best for you to
take a 24 to 48 hour break regularly
even multiple times a week from your
Instagram stories with this strategy
I've been able to increase my story
views by over 500% it's been crazy over
the last few months I've been posting
way less stories which means way less
work way less time energy and effort for
me and instead instead way more views
and I'm able to transition those viewers
into customers which is awesome all by
posting less stories so less is more
with your Instagram stories and if you
are someone who is notorious for doing
those 60-second stories that take up the
entire amount of time here's what I want
you to do instead I want you to take a
solid color background create a solid
color background on your Instagram story
and then press the text to speech button
and speak into your phone the thing that
you would have just recorded yourself
saying most likely that 60 seconds of
talking that you're going to do will
equate to about 2 to three paragraphs of
text use that as a text post story this
essentially allows you to deliver the
same thing you would have delivered in a
60-second talking story but it allows
someone to consume at their own pace and
to pause and hold to read and here's the
really cool thing and the reason why
this really works within the algorithm
if you post a 60-second talking Story
the only way that you can get a 100%
retention is if someone watches
literally the entire video from start to
finish the full 60 seconds however if
you do a two to three paragraph text
post story and someone holds to read
well guess what that text post story is
only supposed to be up on the screen for
3 to 5 seconds so if someone holds and
reads even if they're a speed reader and
they can read that entire two to three
paragraphs in 6 seconds that's over a
100% return attention rate and that is
great in the algorithm's eyes and that
will help you be shown to more people so
less is more with your Instagram Stories
the second Instagram strategy that is
killing your views your reach and your
potential follower growth is what I call
unic content unic content essentially
means posting only one type of content
now this might be a little bit confusing
if you're familiar with what I teach
regarding Niche I believe that a niche
is absolutely essential and we're going
to talk about that a little bit later
that's not what I'm referring to in this
mistake what I'm referring to when I say
unic content is that every single one of
your posts looks the exact same maybe it
was filmed in front of the same backdrop
or it's filmed in the same setting or
every single one of your posts is just a
lip sync of a trending audio or every
single one of your post is a text post
that just looks the same and sounds the
same and is in the same area basically
people will get bored I also consider
youi content to be only posting one kind
of content I'm looking at you if you're
someone who only posts reals I think
there's a lot of people who got some bad
advice who now in 2024 are posting only
reals and they're not posting any photos
or carousels and this is a negative this
is hurting your potential reach and your
potential growth having only one kind of
content gets stale very very quickly as
I like to say yes variety is the spice
of life but also variety is the price of
likes so if you want more likes more
views and more growth mix up your
content and try out different things the
third Instagram strategy is one that
pertains to your sales your business
your lead generation and that is relying
on the link in BIO now you can have a
link in BIO nothing wrong with that but
if you are consistently using that as
the primary driver for your lead
generation or for your sales it's not
going to be very effective or at least I
should say it won't be as effective as
some other strategies if you're someone
who is constantly saying click the link
in my bio go to the link in my bio visit
the link on my page whatever that is not
going to be as effective as something
like DM automation there have been
numerous great studies done on the
analysis paralysis that is created when
you present people with multiple options
essentially if you give people multiple
options the likelihood of them choosing
any of them decreases so at the bare
minimum I would not recommend using a
link tree or any sort of Link menu in
your bio I recommend just having one
single link which is okay but just don't
promote it or at least don't rely on
promoting that link in your bio
similarly I wouldn't recommend even
using the link on your stories that
often I would recommend using direct
message automation as the primary driver
for Distributing links getting link
clicks generating leads and sales and
customers we have seen significantly
higher view engagement clickthrough
rates all from using direct message
Automation in fact I did an entire
episode just about direct message
automation a few weeks ago so I'll link
that up down in the description below
but I highly recommend listening to that
episode because it is mind-blowing how
many more comments and likes and Views
and followers and Link clicks we receive
when using DM aimation compared to when
promoting the link in BIO or even using
the link on stories so if you're a
business owner who is taking Instagram
seriously in 2024 whether that means
you're trying to grow or you're trying
to expand your business and get more
money make more money make more sales
sales from Instagram you need to stop
ignoring direct message Automation and I
recommend using a tool called men chat
there are a few other tools out there
but minich chat is the most popular one
uh if you use the code Brock b r o c all
caps you'll get the first month of many
chap Pro for free so you can essentially
try it risk-free I would highly highly
recommend giving it a shot because it's
a real Difference Maker in your
Instagram mistake number four and I
should say that these mistakes are in no
particular order so this isn't like the
fourth biggest mistake this is just the
fourth mistake that I came up with on
the list and that is something that's
still being taught something that is
very widely uh used and propagated and
spread around by Instagram coaches which
is Trend chasing specifically what I'm
referring to is the trending audio
alerts that so many Instagram coaches
are posting you need to use this audio
it's about to blow up and the reason why
these coaches are posting this is not
necessarily because it's in your best
interest but because it's in their best
interest
either they created the audio and their
page will benefit from you using it or
if nothing else they're trying to create
a fomo and that post of them making a
trending audio alert that's going to do
well because it creates fomo it creates
buzz it creates energy and attention
when in reality it does very little for
you as the person who's actually using
the trending audio but this doesn't just
apply to trending audios we can take a
step back and say that this more broadly
applies to just Trends in general if
you're always looking around in stagram
and playing catchup on what everyone
else is doing you're using the meme a
few days after they are you're using the
pop culture reference a few days after
they are you're trying out that style of
video a few days after they are you're
always going to be behind and it's hard
to get a lot of followers if you're not
being a leader if you yourself are just
being a follower and a copycat and
you're recreating every Trend that you
see it's going to be hard to
differentiate yourself it's going to be
hard to stand out and so instead what I
would recommend doing is either TR
forecasting which means looking ahead of
what trends will be coming soon and
there are a few ways you could do this
you could look at trending audio reports
we do send out a weekly one within the
insta clubhub you could look at what's
trending on Tik Tok because that likely
Trends a few days before it Trends on
Instagram or you could just ignore
trending audios Al together you could
ignore Trends and what's popular all
together and just do what works for you
do what makes you laugh do what you
enjoy doing do uh the kind of content
create the kind of videos that spark joy
and creativity in you do more original
audios kind of like I do very often on
my Instagram where I'm speaking directly
to camera rather than doing a lip sync
with someone else's voice and that will
generally help you not only avoid the
Trap of trend chasing but it will also
help you bring some variety to your
content mistake number five is Doom
scrolling and this is a term that you
might be familiar with which generally
means scrolling infinitely on Instagram
just consuming consuming consuming
wasting all of your time consuming and
being entertained rather than creating
and being entertaining I'm going to
expand Doom scrolling to include
comparison because I think by now a lot
of us have heard the quote comparison is
the thief of joy and I think that aligns
well with the term Doom scrolling often
times when we are scrolling through
Instagram we're not only being
entertained by the fun videos we're also
comparing ourselves to our competitors
we're also feeling less than because our
life that we live every day doesn't live
up to the Highlight Reel that someone is
posting on Instagram so try to limit the
amount of time that you spend scrolling
Set uh actual limits in your phone
setting so you get reminders set
different goals for yourself get an
accountability partner um or just find
other things to do with your time rather
than scrolling through your Instagram
there's actually recently been an
interview with the guy who created the
infinite scroll he came up with the
technology or the software that allowed
you to just kind of scroll forever and
feel like there is no bottom and he has
a lot of regrets around that because it
creates a lot of addiction and mental
health issues around social media but as
someone like yourself who is a content
creator or a business owner you don't
have the time to be Doom scrolling and
to be getting sucked into comparing
yourself to others you need to be
creating content and to be posting
content in order to be reaching more
people in order to be reaching your
ideal customers clients or students so
you're doing yourself and you're doing
the world a disservice by infinitely
scrolling set limits and there is
definitely a time in place to enjoy a
scroll to check out to turn your brain
off so to speak but I want you to make
sure that you're aware of how much
you're doing that and that you're
intentional with your scroll strategy
number six that is likely killing your
account is what I like to call gimmick
hacking and essentially there are an
infinite amount of hacks that you could
try out on Instagram and Instagram
coaches again I feel like a lot of these
uh worst strategies are propagated by
Instagram coaches who might not have
your best interest in mind but there's
this one very common one that I can
think of off the top of my head is where
after creating your real you type out a
bunch of keywords that describe the real
and then you make the color of the text
the same as the background so maybe I'm
going to make it like a gray so that it
Blends in with my shirt or I'm going to
make it kind of like a off-white to
blend in with my walls in the background
so you make the text basically blend in
and become invisible with the background
and then maybe you even like pinch the
text together to make it really small so
it's like really hidden but it's still
there horrible it's called keyword
stuffing and it was taught for a few
months as a way to go viral on Instagram
and tell the algorithm what your post is
about but now Instagram has literally
come out and said do not do this our
algorithms can pick up on when you're
doing this and we will suppress your
reach if you are doing this so avoid it
don't do this this is a strategy that's
literally being taught by some people
and yet Instagram is saying do not do
this we know this is going on and we
will limit your reach because of it
there are so many hacks that are always
always uh being come up with just the
other day I heard one where someone said
that when you post you should tag at
Instagram and at creators because then
you're essentially telling Instagram
that you are an Instagram Creator and
you want more reach and so they will
prioritize sending you out to more
people no these hacks these gimmicks
they're always floating around they're
always quick to become ineffective
they're usually only very effective for
the person who comes up with them they
work one time then that person teaches
it to the world as if it's a fact so do
your best to avoid gimmick hacking avoid
gimmick chasing avoid chasing the latest
hack or strategy that is blowing up
right now because those are the things
that are often very fleeting and very
hard to keep track of those are the
things that make you feel overwhelmed
and make you feel like you can't sustain
your consistency on Instagram instead
stick with the strategies that are tried
or true that are proven to be effective
year after year for decades on end and
those things are rarely ever changing
those things will allow you to have
long-term sustained success last but not
least strategy number seven and I feel
like this one is more commonly taught on
Tik Tok um or even more commonly taught
just in general with younger Generations
rather than I I am a younger generation
so I'm going to lump myself in with that
category but just generally speaking
this is more common the younger you get
the younger the demographics skew and
that is Niche hopping I told you we
would get back to n and I told you we'd
talk more about it but having a niche is
step one for growth on social media can
you grow without a niche sure but it's
going to be much much tougher because
let's think about it this way when you
don't have a niche people don't know
what to expect from you people might
eventually know you like you trust you
and even love you but it's very very
hard for someone to get to that point if
they don't follow you in the first place
and it's very hard for someone to follow
you in the first place if they don't
know what your account is going to be
about if you post about all of your
different interests and passions and
hobbies they don't know what to expect
they don't know what they're going to
get they don't know if you can solve
their problems or fill their needs or if
you have the kind of humor and
entertainment that they're looking for
and so it's very unlikely that someone's
going to follow you and so there are
definitely creative ways that you can
bring your interests and passions and
hobbies and the different elements of
your personality into your Niche and
relate all of those things back to one
Central topic but without that one
Central topic it's going to be very very
tough to grow and so whether you're
trying to grow on Instagram or Tik Tok
or YouTube or whatever identifying your
Niche your topic is Step number one for
growth I will say we've done a few
episodes of build your tribe recently um
about how to pick your Niche my mom did
it recently I'll link that up in the
show notes below but hopping from Niche
to Niche talking about all your
different interests and passions and
hobbies um is not very often going to
lead to sustainable growth it's going to
be very difficult for the algorithm to
figure out what your content is about
which which then makes it difficult for
the algorithm to know whom to show your
content to it makes it tough for you to
figure out what to post about because
you could post about anything and I know
that sounds like well if I could post
about anything well then I'll have
infinite ideas but in reality remember
earlier when we talked about the whole
analysis paralysis thing if you could
post about anything how do you
differentiate what you actually should
post about from day to day so pick your
Niche Niche down identify that topic
that's step one for growing on Instagram
if you want all the rest of the steps
for growing on Instagram that's what we
teach inside the insta clubhub that is
the Instagram growth membership that my
mom and I run together where we do live
trainings we have pre-recorded lessons
we have personalized lessons based off
where you're at we have personalized
content calendars one-on-one profile
reviews all that good stuff and you can
check that out and get full access to
the insta clubhub for 2 weeks for just
$7 by clicking the link down in the show
notes below or visiting insta
clubhub.com
trial and depending on when you're
listening to this we might even have
some free bonus offers available on that
page as well so again just visit insta
clubhub.com
trial or click on the link down in the
description below thank you so much for
listening today make sure to check out
the other episode that we did previously
about Niche if you haven't already or if
that is something that you are
struggling with and as always happy
[Music]
networking
oh